I think when the human community began
crafting instruments of various kinds
the flute emulated the human voice so
closely that that was the preferred
instrument to work with you want to
dream through it you want to play your
own voice you want to play your own soul
and that surprises me because even in my
own traditional indigenous cultures it's
always player dreams and play that
instrument as if it were the last breath
of life you are going to take and you
wanted to share that with all the living
things around you in this region in what
today is regarded as Sonora in fact the
Spaniards were the ones who said it's so
very much like Spain where we come from
and it's so very much different too
because there are many birds there are
many animals there there seems to be all
this sound happening in this space in
this environment in this particular
region that we're in we'll call it a
sounding desert and even for me in the
modern world you know in that sense I
mean with the inclusion of the
automobile and the great masses of
people and all the activities that go on
every day here in northern Sonora
there's still that sound that quality of
sound that inhabits everything that we
do it's it's here we're surrounded all
time with music and I think that was a
proper name to give to this area the
Sonoran Desert and I try to add some of
that to the flute music I perform it's a
challenge and I enjoy it very much
especially with vocal groups and choral
groups of various kinds
I'm always needing to be very aware of
how the flute sound is not on top of
everything like I'm not the soloist
but I'm a component of bringing together
that the different voices in the vocal
performance and adding my component of
the flute sound to all of that and so
the blending of all those voices at once
you know it's adds another perspective
and another sound world to this
performance that we're going to do and I
really enjoy that quite a bit for those
who are questioning whether or not they
would like to be here this for this
performance is come anyway but be
prepared to have a good time and enjoy
what you'll hear